[Docs] Machine ID Host Certificate Support (#16989)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/machine-id/guides/hostcertificate.mdx

---
title: Host Certificates with Machine ID
description: Issuing Host Certificates with Machine ID for OpenSSH servers.
---

> In this guide, you will learn how to create host certificates through Machine ID to allow Teleport users (manually or automated through Machine ID) to access OpenSSH servers. This allows for the benefits of

Reviewer: I wonder if it's overcomplicating things to mention "manually or automated through Machine ID". Perhaps it makes more sense that this guide improves on https://goteleport.com/docs/server-access/guides/openssh/ by ensuring that certificates are rotated regularly without manual intervention.

Reviewer 2: I agree with this pending any differing opinions, intro is being reworked to better reflect this

> Machine ID with OpenSSH nodes and reduces risk by ensuring that short-lived host certificates on Teleport clusters can be successfully applied.

Reviewer: I think that this doesn't really communicate precisely the benefit of using Machine ID rather than manually producing the certificate with `tctl`. I'd probably suggest that it reduces risk because you do not need to issue long-lived host certificates, which can be stolen and used by a malicious actor until they expire, and reduces the burden of needing to manually rotate these certificates.

Reviewer 2: This is a good point, I'm expanding on this section to get the details out of the way at the start

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

(!/docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

- OpenSSH server `sshd` version 6.9 or above installed. The SSH port on this host must be open to traffic from the Teleport Proxy Service host.

  ```code
  $ ssh -V
  ```

## Step 1/4. Download and install Teleport (=teleport.version=)

In this step, you will be downloading and installing Teleport binaries onto the
machine you wish to assign an identity to.

Each Teleport package hosted on our downloads page ships with several useful
binaries, including `teleport`, `tctl`, `tsh`, and `tbot`:

- `teleport` is the daemon used to initialize a Teleport cluster; this binary is not used in this guide.
- `tctl` is the administrative tool you will use to create the bot user.
- `tsh` is the client tool you will use to log in to the OpenSSH server.
- `tbot` is the Machine ID tool you will use to associate a bot user with a machine.

Machine ID is available starting from the Teleport 9.0.0 release. Download the appropriate Teleport package for your platform from our [downloads page](https://goteleport.com/teleport/download).

> Next, log in to your cluster using `tsh` to ensure that your machine will be able to interact with the cluster:

Reviewer: Referring to both the engineer's laptop and the machine on which we are installing `tbot` on as "machine" feels a little confusing - it might not be clear that this command needs to be run on the engineer's laptop.

Perhaps we ought to list all the machines involved at the start, explain what each one will be doing and give them a name we can bold when used in later instructions.

```code
tsh login --proxy=myteleportcluster.com --user=teleport-username
```

## Step 2/4. Create a Role to Issue `tbot` Certificates

> In order to create certificates `tbot` requires a role that provides the necessary permissions. Roles may restrict which **principals** can be requested using **predicates**,

Reviewer: I think we ought to explain that in the context of OpenSSH and host certificates, the "principle" is the host name over which users will be connecting to the OpenSSH server.

or strings which are used to reduce the scope of permissions for creating host certificates.
By using the format of `where: 'predicate(host_cert.principals, "domain.name")'`, a Teleport user can create a role that will only be able to able to affect the designated domain name
in a manner defined by the selected predicate. A list of supported predicates and their behavior are listed below:

| **Predicate** | **Behavior** | **Example** |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| all_equal | All created domains must be equal to the domain. | `all_equal(host_cert.principals, "foo.example.com")` |
| all_end_with | All created domains or subdomains must end with the selected domain. | `all_end_with(host_cert.principals, ".example.com")` |

> | is_subset | All created domains must be a subset of the selected domain. This requires the certificate requested by tbot to be be listed with the role's predicate. | `is_subset(host_cert.principals, "foo.example.com", "bar.example.com")` |

Reviewer 3: I'd argue this could still be clarified since unlike `all_end_with()`, `is_subset()` doesn't look at domains, just set membership:
```suggestion
| is_subset | All requested principals must be contained in the listed set. | `is_subset(host_cert.principals, "foo.example.com", "bar.example.com")` |
```

I'm also not sure if the "All created domains ..." verbiage is super clear, since we're not creating domains but instead requesting certs with some set of principals.

assume you want to give the bot the `hostcert-bot` role to allow it to generate host certificates.

```
Role    Allowed to login as                           Node Labels Access to resources
------- --------------------------------------------- ----------- ----------------------------------------
access  {{internal.logins}}                           <all nodes> event:list,read,session:read,list
auditor no-login-6566121f-b602-47f1-a118-c9c618ee5aec             session:list,read,event:list,read
editor
hostcert-bot  host_cert:create,list,read,update,delete             user:list,create,read,update,delete,...
```

`tbot` can join the Teleport Cluster using a number of supported methods. This guide will highlight both the `token` and the [IAM Method](https://goteleport.com/docs/setup/guides/joining-nodes-aws) on AWS.
Note that the following commands may be entered on any Teleport node with `tctl` access to the cluster.

While any role with permissions for creating host certificates will work, this guide will make use of the `hostcert-bot` role created previously to ensure that the configuration adheres to the principle of least privilege.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Token-based Joining">

>   ```code

Reviewer 3: Maybe just GitHub's markdown parser getting hung up, but this is failing to parse in the preview. I think there needs to be an empty line before the code block?

          principals: [nodename.my.domain.com]
```

Once completed, your `tbot.yaml` configuration should resemble the following:

```
onboarding:
  token: "1234abcd5678efgh9"
  ca_path: ""
  ca_pins:
  - sha256:1234abcd5678efgh910ijklmnop
  join_method: token
storage:
  directory:
    path: /var/lib/teleport/bot
    symlinks: secure
    acls: try
destinations:
  - directory:
      path: /opt/machine-id
    configs:
      - ssh_host_cert:
          principals: [nodename.my.domain.com]
debug: false
auth_server: example.teleport.sh:443
certificate_ttl: 1h0m0s
renewal_interval: 20m0s
oneshot: false
```

Note the `renewal_interval` field, which will determine the cadence in which new certificates will be generated. Machine ID uses a default of 20 minutes for the `renewal_interval`, however this field may be adjusted as needed.

## Step 4/4 Start Machine ID and create a host certificate

Using your configuration file, The `tbot start` command will start running Machine ID in a loop,
writing renewable certificates to `/var/lib/teleport/bot` according to your configuration, and the short-lived certificates including the Host Certificate your bot will use to `/opt/machine-id`.

> In a production environment you will want to run Machine ID in the background using a service manager like systemd. However, in this guide you will run it in the foreground to better understand how it works.

Reviewer: Do we have a guide we can link to here on how to run `tbot` as a systemd service?

Reviewer: Perfect !

---
title: Generating Short-Lived Host Certificates with Machine ID
description: Issuing Host Certificates with Machine ID for OpenSSH servers.
---

Host certificates are generally created on Teleport for access to OpenSSH servers that can not otherwise join a Teleport cluster.
While long-lived certificates may be applied for this purpose, short-lived and regularly rotated host certificates generated
through Teleport help to provide a number of security benefits over their long-lived counterparts. Regular certificate rotation reduces risk by ensuring that any potentially stolen
certificates are usable for a shorter period of time. Additionally, when coupled with Teleport's [RBAC](https://goteleport.com/docs/access-controls/guides/role-templates/)
support and host certificate **Principals** and **Predicates**, you can apply limitations to both the process of creating host certificates,
as well as the host certificates themselves.

In this guide, you will learn how to create host certificates through Machine ID for OpenSSH servers, allowing for the benefits of host certificates with OpenSSH nodes,

> and reducing risk by ensuring that short-lived certificates adhering to the principle of least privelege can be successfully applied to Teleport clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and reducing risk by ensuring that short-lived certificates adhering to the principle of least privilege can be successfully applied to Teleport clusters.
```

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

(!/docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

- OpenSSH server `sshd` version 6.9 or above installed. The SSH port on this host must be open to traffic from the Teleport Proxy Service host.

  ```code
  $ ssh -V
  ```

> - A Linux based host that can support Machine ID. This "Machine ID Host" is the host that will be used to create Host Certificates.

Reviewer: Hm, I'd expect that this "Machine ID host" to be the same machine as the one with OpenSSH running on it.

## Step 1/4. Download and install Teleport (=teleport.version=)

(!/docs/pages/includes/install-linux.mdx!)

> Next, log in to your cluster from the Machine ID host using `tsh` to ensure that your device will be able to interact with the cluster:

Reviewer: I'm not sure we want to encourage users working with `tsh` on the machine running `tbot`. I'd expect `tsh`/`tctl` to be invoked from the engineers laptop, and `tbot` to be running on the  OpenSSH server they want to grant a host certificate to using Machine ID.

Reviewer 2: This makes sense, adjusting

The new configuration YAML will require a `destination` field and `ssh_host_cert` subfield that resembles the following, replacing `nodename.my.domain.com` with your own required domain name:

```
destinations:
  - directory:
      path: /opt/machine-id
    configs:
      - ssh_host_cert:
          principals: [nodename.my.domain.com]
```

Once completed, your `tbot.yaml` configuration should resemble the following:

```
onboarding:
  token: "1234abcd5678efgh9"
  ca_path: ""
  ca_pins:
  - sha256:1234abcd5678efgh910ijklmnop
  join_method: token
storage:
  directory:
    path: /var/lib/teleport/bot
    symlinks: secure
    acls: try
destinations:
  - directory:
      path: /opt/machine-id
    configs:
      - ssh_host_cert:
          principals: [nodename.my.domain.com]
debug: false
auth_server: example.teleport.sh:443
certificate_ttl: 1h0m0s
renewal_interval: 20m0s
oneshot: false
```

Note the `renewal_interval` field, which will determine the cadence in which new certificates will be generated. Machine ID uses a default of 20 minutes for the `renewal_interval`, however this field may be adjusted as needed.

## Step 4/4 Start Machine ID and create a host certificate

> Using your configuration file, The `tbot start` command will start running Machine ID on your Machine ID host in a loop,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using your configuration file, the `tbot start` command will start running Machine ID on your Machine ID host in a loop,
```

key
key-cert.pub
key.pub
known_hosts
ssh_config
ssh_host
ssh_host-cert.pub
teleport-database-ca.crt
teleport-host-ca.crt
teleport-user-ca.crt
tlscert
```

The public host certificate and private key Machine ID will be generating can be found within the `ssh_host-cert.pub` and `ssh_host` file. To confirm this,
view the public certificate's contents by entering the following command:

```code
$ sudo ssh-keygen -L -f /opt/machine-id/key-cert.pub
```

The contents of the public certificate will appear, and will contain a `principals` field which will contain the `nodename.my.domain.com` domain entered in a previous step.
Your output will resemble the following:

```
        Type: ssh-rsa-cert-v01@openssh.com host certificate
        Public key: RSA-CERT SHA256:abcde123efghijk567lmnop
        Signing CA: RSA SHA256:abcde123efghijk567lmnop (using rsa-sha2-512)
        Key ID: ""
        Serial: 0
        Valid: from 2022-09-30T13:16:36 to 2022-09-30T17:17:36
        Principals:
                nodename.my.domain.com
        Critical Options: (none)
        Extensions:
                x-teleport-authority UNKNOWN OPTION (len 55)
                x-teleport-role UNKNOWN OPTION (len 8)
```

> ## Next steps

Reviewer: I wonder if it would be nice to include a final step which includes connecting to the OpenSSH server to demonstrate this process has worked end-to-end.

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

(!/docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

- OpenSSH server `sshd` version 6.9 or above installed. The SSH port on this host must be open to traffic from the Teleport Proxy Service host.

  ```code
  $ ssh -V
  ```

## Step 1/4. Download and install Teleport (=teleport.version=)

In this step, you will be downloading and installing Teleport binaries onto a remote machine. For the purposes of this guide, this machine will be referred to as the `Remote Device` and exists separately
from the Teleport cluster.

Each Teleport package hosted on our downloads page ships with several useful
binaries, including `teleport`, `tctl`, `tsh`, and `tbot`:

- `teleport` is the daemon used to initialize a Teleport cluster; this binary is not used in this guide.
- `tctl` is the administrative tool you will use to create the bot user.
- `tsh` is the client tool you will use to log in to the OpenSSH server.
- `tbot` is the Machine ID tool you will use to associate a bot user with a machine.

> Machine ID is available starting from the Teleport 9.0.0 release. Download the appropriate Teleport package for your platform from our [downloads page](https://goteleport.com/teleport/download).

Reviewer 4: > Download the appropriate Teleport package for your platform from our [downloads page](https://goteleport.com/teleport/download).

Rather than this, what would you think of using our `install-linux.mdx` partial so users don't need to leave this guide?

Reviewer 2: This makes sense to me. This section was built from our pre-existing Machine ID documentation, and I suspect that we may use it in our documentation elsewhere. I created an issue to follow up on this 

https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/issues/17306

Next, log in to your cluster from the remote device using `tsh` to ensure that your device will be able to interact with the cluster:

```code

> tsh login --proxy=myteleportcluster.com --user=teleport-username

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
$ tsh login --proxy=myteleportcluster.com --user=teleport-username
```
So this command renders properly in the `code` fence

```

> ## Step 2/4. Create a Role to Issue `tbot` Certificates

Reviewer 4: We use sentence case for headings (https://goteleport.com/docs/contributing/documentation/style-guide/#headings)

> In order to create certificates `tbot` requires a role that provides the necessary permissions. Roles may restrict which **principals** can be requested using **predicates**,

Reviewer 4: - I think we can make it clearer what "principal" means to users who aren't familiar with certificate-based SSH authentication. 

- In "which principals can be requested": What's doing the requesting? Machine ID? Why are these principles being requested?

or strings which are used to reduce the scope of permissions for creating host certificates.

> By using the format of `where: 'predicate(host_cert.principals, "domain.name")'`, a Teleport user can create a role that will only be able to able to affect the designated domain name

Reviewer 4: In this sentence:
  
  > By using the format of where: 'predicate(host_cert.principals, "domain.name")', a Teleport user can create a role that will only be able to able to affect the designated domain name in a manner defined by the selected predicate. 

  I think there's too much going on at once—we could split up this sentence to introduce the predicate language format separately from how Teleport uses it in this case.

> in a manner defined by the selected predicate. A list of supported predicates and their behavior are listed below:

Reviewer 4: Can we make "that will only be able to affect the designated domain name in a manner defined by the selected predicate" more specific? What does "affect" mean?

> | **Predicate** | **Behavior** | **Example** |

Reviewer 4: I think we should make values within the first column `code style` to emphasize that a user can add them to a configuration

| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| all_equal | All requested principals must be equal to the set string. If the set string is `foo.example.com`, host certificates limit access only to `foo.example.com`. | `all_equal(host_cert.principals, "foo.example.com")` |
| all_end_with |  All requested principals must end with the set string. If the set string is `.example.com`, host certificates limit access only to `*.example.com`. | `all_end_with(host_cert.principals, ".example.com")` |
| is_subset | All requested principals must be contained in the listed set. | `is_subset(host_cert.principals, "foo.example.com", "bar.example.com")` |

In the case of an example role for use within this guide, use a text editor of your choice to create a role YAML named `tbotrole.yaml` with the following configuration options, replacing `nodename.my.domain.com` with your own domain name,
or the domain associated with your cluster:

> ```code

Reviewer 4: ````suggestion
```yaml
````
So we can use YAML syntax highlighting

>  kind: role

Reviewer 4: Not sure the indentation is correct here.

metadata:
  name: hostcert-bot
version: v5
spec:
  allow:
    rules:
      - resources:
          - host_cert
        verbs:
          - create
        where: 'is_subset(host_cert.principals, "nodename.my.domain.com")'
```

> Once complete, create your role to apply to the tbot configuration in the next step:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Once complete, create your role to apply to the `tbot` configuration in the next step:
```

```code
$ tctl create tbotrole.yaml
```

> ### Step 3/4 Create Your `tbot` Configuration

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Step 3/4 Create Your `tbot` Configuration
```

Before you create a bot user, you need to determine which role(s) you want to
assign to it. You can use the `tctl` command below to examine what roles exist

> on your system.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
on your system:
```

> <ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>

Reviewer 4: I think we can remove lines 96–103, since the `tctl.mdx` partial above already shows you how to log in to use `tctl`, and the sentence before this says "You can use the `tctl command below...".

On your client machine, log in to Teleport using `tsh`, then use `tctl` to examine
what roles exist on your system.
</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope={["oss","enterprise"]}>
Connect to the Teleport Auth Server and use `tctl` to examine what roles exist on
your system.
</ScopedBlock>

```code
$ tctl get roles --format=text
```

You will see something like the output below on a fresh install of Teleport with the

> default roles—your cluster may have different roles. In this example, let's

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
preset roles—your cluster may have different roles. In this example, let's
```
To be consistent with the rest of the docs

> assume you want to give the bot the `hostcert-bot` role to allow it to generate host certificates.

Reviewer 4: Will the `hostcert-bot` role be available on a fresh install with the preset Teleport roles?

```
Role    Allowed to login as                           Node Labels Access to resources
------- --------------------------------------------- ----------- ----------------------------------------
access  {{internal.logins}}                           <all nodes> event:list,read,session:read,list
auditor no-login-6566121f-b602-47f1-a118-c9c618ee5aec             session:list,read,event:list,read
editor
hostcert-bot  host_cert:create,list,read,update,delete             user:list,create,read,update,delete,...
```

> `tbot` can join the Teleport Cluster using a number of supported methods. This guide will highlight both the `token` and the [IAM Method](https://goteleport.com/docs/setup/guides/joining-nodes-aws) on AWS.

Reviewer 4: For how-to guides, our style guide advises against linking outside the current page (https://goteleport.com/docs/contributing/documentation/style-guide/#expectations-1) so we can direct the user to the end of the guide as quickly as possible. Can we add a brief description of the IAM method instead?

> Note that the following commands may be entered on any Teleport node with `tctl` access to the cluster.

Reviewer 4: We cover this in the `tctl.mdx` partial. If we do want to keep this sentence, I think this wording can be clearer. What does "Teleport node" mean? Can it include a user's workstation?

While any role with permissions for creating host certificates will work, this guide will make use of the `hostcert-bot` role created previously to ensure that the configuration adheres to the principle of least privilege.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Token-based Joining">

  ```code
  $ tctl bots add robot --roles=hostcert-bot
  ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="IAM Method">

>   First, create an IAM method token that specifies the AWS account from which

Reviewer 4: I think the guide should be consistent in how it capitalizes "IAM method". Sometimes "Method" is capitalized, sometimes it's not.

>   the bot can join. Create the below file as `iam-token.yaml` then run `tctl

Reviewer 4: I think we should add the example command on its own line as a code fence so users can copy it more easily with the copy button. This also makes the command more prominent as a command so users don't miss it.

  create -f iam-token.yaml`.

  ```
  kind: token
  version: v2
  metadata:
    # The token name is not a secret because instances must prove that they are
    # running in your AWS account to use this token.
    name: iam-token
    # Set a long expiry time for how long you want to support IAM method for
    # joining. It is safe to set this value to a very long time.
    expires: "3000-01-01T00:00:00Z"
  spec:
    # Only allow bots to join using this token.
    roles: [Bot]

    # Set the join method to be IAM.
    join_method: iam

    # Define the name of the bot that will be allowed to use this token.
    bot_name: robot

    allow:
    # Restrict the AWS account and (optionally) ARN that can use this token.
    # This information can be obtained from running the
    # "aws sts get-caller-identity" command from the CLI.
    - aws_account: "111111111111"
      aws_arn: "arn:aws:sts::111111111111:assumed-role/teleport-bot-role/i-*"
  ```

  Next, create the bot user.

  ```
  $ tctl bots add robot --token=iam-token --roles=hostcert-bot
  ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

> Machine ID may now be configured using the `tbot configure` command on the bot node.

Reviewer 4: This is the first time we mention "bot node" here. What does this mean?

> First, create a basic configuration file using the following parameters:

Reviewer 4: What does "First" mean here? This seems like an intermediate step within this section. Maybe we should start a separate H3 section here?

     --token=(=presets.tokens.first=) \
     --join-method=token \
     --certificate-ttl=1h0m0s \
     --ca-pin=(=presets.ca_pin=) \
     --auth-server=auth.example.com:3025
  ```

  </ScopedBlock>
  <ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>

  ```code
  $ tbot configure \
     --data-dir=/var/lib/teleport/bot \
     --token=(=presets.tokens.first=) \
     --join-method=token \
     --certificate-ttl=1h0m0s \
     --ca-pin=(=presets.ca_pin=) \
     --auth-server=example.teleport.sh:443
  ```

  </ScopedBlock>

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="IAM Method">

  <ScopedBlock scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}>

  ```code
  $ tbot configure \
     --data-dir=/var/lib/teleport/bot \
     --token=iam-token \
     --join-method=iam \
     --certificate-ttl=1h0m0s \
     --ca-pin=(=presets.ca_pin=) \
     --auth-server=auth.example.com:3025
  ```

  </ScopedBlock>
  <ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>

  ```code
  $ tbot configure \
     --data-dir=/var/lib/teleport/bot \
     --token=iam-token \
     --join-method=iam \
     --certificate-ttl=1h0m0s \
     --ca-pin=(=presets.ca_pin=) \
     --auth-server=example.teleport.sh:443
  ```

  </ScopedBlock>

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

> Replace the following fields with values from your own cluster.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Replace the following fields with values from your own cluster:
```

> <ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>

Reviewer 4: I would recommend using `Tabs` instead of a `ScopedBlock` since it's not clear that a `ScopedBlock` has variations for different scopes, and users often (if not usually) don't realize that they can switch scope.

- `token` is the token output by the `tctl bots add` command or the name of your IAM method token.
- `ca-pin` is the CA Pin for your Teleport cluster, and is output by the `tctl bots add` command.
- `data-dir` is where Machine ID writes its private data, including its own short-lived renewable certificates. These should not be used by applications and tools.

> - `auth-server` is the address of your Teleport Cloud Proxy Server, for example `example.teleport.sh:443`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `auth-server` is the address of your Teleport Cloud tenant, for example `example.teleport.sh:443`.
```

</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope={["oss","enterprise"]}>

- `token` is the token output by the `tctl bots add` command or the name of your IAM method token.
- `ca-pin` is the CA Pin for your Teleport cluster, and is output by the `tctl bots add` command.
- `data-dir` is where Machine ID writes its private data, including its own short-lived renewable certificates. These should not be used by applications and tools.
- `certificate-ttl` is the option that will determine the time until expiration for any `tbot` issued certificates, including host certificates. The default TTL is for one hour, meaning that all generated certificates will expire after one hour's time.
- `auth-server` is the address of your Teleport Auth Server, for example
  `auth.example.com:3025`. If your Machine ID host is in a different network
  than your Auth Server, use the public web address of your Proxy Service
  instead (e.g., `auth.example.com:443`).

</ScopedBlock>

> Using a text editor of your choice, write the output generated by the `tbot configure` command to a configuration YAML file, in this example we'll be using `tbot.yaml`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Using a text editor of your choice, write the output generated by the `tbot configure` command to a configuration YAML file. In this example we'll be using `tbot.yaml`.
```

> Once complete, the Machine ID configuration will still require a destination directory to be manually referenced within the configuration file. The destination directory is where Machine ID will write certificates

Reviewer 4: This is a long paragraph—I think we should break it up to make it easier to read.

> Once complete, the Machine ID configuration will still require a destination directory to be manually referenced within the configuration file. The destination directory is where Machine ID will write certificates

Reviewer 4: This also seems like the natural start of a separate H3 subsection.

> which can be used by application and tools to start Machine ID. In the configuration yaml `tbot.yaml`, this configuration will additionally be used to designate the **principal**,

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
which can be used by application and tools to start Machine ID. In the configuration yaml `tbot.yaml`, this configuration will additionally be used to designate the principal,
```

> in this case the Domain Name that we'll be applying to the tbot configuration to access a Node.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
in this case the domain name that we'll be applying to the `tbot` configuration to access a Node.
```

```
destinations:
  - directory:
      path: /opt/machine-id
    configs:
      - ssh_host_cert:
          principals: [nodename.my.domain.com]
```

Once completed, your `tbot.yaml` configuration should resemble the following:

```
onboarding:
  token: "1234abcd5678efgh9"
  ca_path: ""
  ca_pins:
  - sha256:1234abcd5678efgh910ijklmnop
  join_method: token
storage:
  directory:
    path: /var/lib/teleport/bot
    symlinks: secure
    acls: try
destinations:
  - directory:
      path: /opt/machine-id
    configs:
      - ssh_host_cert:
          principals: [nodename.my.domain.com]
debug: false
auth_server: example.teleport.sh:443
certificate_ttl: 1h0m0s
renewal_interval: 20m0s
oneshot: false
```

Note the `renewal_interval` field, which will determine the cadence in which new certificates will be generated. Machine ID uses a default of 20 minutes for the `renewal_interval`, however this field may be adjusted as needed.

## Step 4/4 Start Machine ID and create a host certificate

Using your configuration file, The `tbot start` command will start running Machine ID in a loop,

> writing renewable certificates to `/var/lib/teleport/bot` according to your configuration, and the short-lived certificates including the Host Certificate your bot will use to `/opt/machine-id`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
writing renewable certificates to `/var/lib/teleport/bot` according to your configuration, and the short-lived certificates including the host certificate your bot will use to `/opt/machine-id`.
```

In a production environment you will want to run Machine ID in the background using a service manager like systemd. However, in this guide you will run it in the foreground to better understand how it works.

```code

> $ tbot start -c tbot.yaml

Reviewer 4: Should we add a debug/verbose flag here?

Reviewer 2: The command outputs information by default, I think that a verbose/debug flag may cause confusion unless we're highlighting some specific output we're otherwise not seeing

Reviewer: I agree with @rsyracuse , it's probably best to not include `-d` here for standard usage as the additional logging won't be particularly useful.

key
key-cert.pub
key.pub
known_hosts
ssh_config
ssh_host
ssh_host-cert.pub
teleport-database-ca.crt
teleport-host-ca.crt
teleport-user-ca.crt
tlscert
```

The public host certificate and private key Machine ID will be generating can be found within the `ssh_host-cert.pub` and `ssh_host` file. To confirm this,
view the public certificate's contents by entering the following command:

```code
$ sudo ssh-keygen -L -f /opt/machine-id/key-cert.pub
```

The contents of the public certificate will appear, and will contain a `principals` field which will contain the `nodename.my.domain.com` domain entered in a previous step.
Your output will resemble the following:

```
        Type: ssh-rsa-cert-v01@openssh.com host certificate
        Public key: RSA-CERT SHA256:abcde123efghijk567lmnop
        Signing CA: RSA SHA256:abcde123efghijk567lmnop (using rsa-sha2-512)
        Key ID: ""
        Serial: 0
        Valid: from 2022-09-30T13:16:36 to 2022-09-30T17:17:36
        Principals:
                nodename.my.domain.com
        Critical Options: (none)
        Extensions:
                x-teleport-authority UNKNOWN OPTION (len 55)
                x-teleport-role UNKNOWN OPTION (len 8)
```

> ## Next Steps

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Next steps
```

> Now that Host Certificates have been created with Teleport, they can be applied to OpenSSH configurations as needed. For more information regarding the next steps

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Now that host certificates have been created with Teleport, they can be applied to OpenSSH configurations as needed. For more information regarding the next steps
```

---
title: Host Certificates with Machine ID
description: Issuing Host Certificates with Machine ID
---

> In this guide, you will learn how to create host certificates through Machine ID for OpenSSH servers. This allows for the benefits of

Reviewer 5: The primary use case here is to allow Teleport (human or machine) users to connect to OpenSSH servers, right?

> Machine ID with OpenSSH nodes and reduces risk by ensuring that short-lived certificates issued to tbot users on Teleport clusters can be successfully applied.

Reviewer 5: Teleport issues both user certs and host certs. This guide is about host certs, so I find the "certificates issued to tbot _users_" part a little confusing.

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

(!/docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

- OpenSSH server `sshd` version 6.9 or above installed. The SSH port on this host must be open to traffic from the Teleport Proxy Service host.

  ```code
  $ ssh -V
  ```

> - A host that you wish to assign an identity to using Machine ID.

Reviewer 5: Is this really a separate prerequisite? The host you're assigning an identity to is the OpenSSH server mentioned above.

Reviewer 2: Removing this

Reviewer 2: Removing, this is a leftover step borrowed from our Machine ID getting started guide. It shouldn't be necessary in this context

## Step 1/4. Download and install Teleport (=teleport.version=)

In this step, you will be downloading and installing Teleport binaries onto the
machine you wish to assign an identity to.

Each Teleport package hosted on our downloads page ships with several useful
binaries, including `teleport`, `tctl`, `tsh`, and `tbot`:

- `teleport` is the daemon used to initialize a Teleport cluster; this binary is not used in this guide.
- `tctl` is the administrative tool you will use to create the bot user.

> - `tsh` is the client tool you will use to log in to the Teleport Cluster.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- `tsh` is the client tool you will use to log in to the OpenSSH server.
```

maybe?

- `tbot` is the Machine ID tool you will use to associate a bot user with a machine.

> Next, log in to your cluster using `tsh` to ensure that your machine will be able to interact with the cluster:

Reviewer 5: This step says to download and install teleport, but it doesn't tell you where to download it from or how to install it - it skips straight to logging in.

Reviewer 2: My mistake here, adding a link to the [downloads page](https://goteleport.com/teleport/download) and a little extra background info

```code
tsh login --proxy=myteleportcluster.com --user=teleport-username
```

## Step 2/4. Create a Role to Issue `tbot` Certificates

> In order to create certificates with Tbot, a role must be created that provides the necessary permissions. Tbot configurations support certificate **principals** and **predicates**,

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In order to create certificates, `tbot` requires a role that provides the necessary permissions. Roles support certificate **principals** and **predicates**,
```

Reviewer 3: I'd maybe go a bit further:

```suggestion
In order to create certificates, `tbot` requires a role that provides the necessary permissions. Roles may restrict which **principals** can be requested using **predicates**,
```

> or strings which are used to reduce the scope of access the bot will have when accessing a specific host.

Reviewer 5: The bot doesn't "access a specific host" - it just gets certificates for the host.

> By using the format of `where: 'predicate(host_cert.principals, "domain.name")'`, a Teleport user can create a role that will only be able to able to effect the designated domain name

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
By using the format of `where: 'predicate(host_cert.principals, "domain.name")'`, a Teleport user can create a role that will only be able to able to affect the designated domain name
```

Pretty sure you want the verb here.

in a manner defined by the selected predicate. A full list of predicates and their behavior are listed below:

| **Predicate** | **Behavior** |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| eguals | Created domain must be equal to the domain. |
| contains | Created domains must contain the domain in some way. |
| all_equal | All created domains must be equal to the domain. |
| all_end_with | All created domains or subdomains must end with the selected domain. |

> | is_subset | All created domains must be a subset of the selected domain. This requires the certificate requested by tbot to be be listed with the role's predicate. |

Reviewer 2: Adding your examples as well as an example column to more explicitly clarify the syntax

on your system.

<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>
On your client machine, log in to Teleport using `tsh`, then use `tctl` to examine
what roles exist on your system.
</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope={["oss","enterprise"]}>
Connect to the Teleport Auth Server and use `tctl` to examine what roles exist on
your system.
</ScopedBlock>

```code
$ tctl get roles --format=text
```

You will see something like the output below on a fresh install of Teleport with the
default roles—your cluster may have different roles. In this example, let's
assume you want to give the bot the `hostcert-bot` role to allow it to generate host certificates.

```
Role    Allowed to login as                           Node Labels Access to resources
------- --------------------------------------------- ----------- ----------------------------------------
access  {{internal.logins}}                           <all nodes> event:list,read,session:read,list
auditor no-login-6566121f-b602-47f1-a118-c9c618ee5aec             session:list,read,event:list,read
editor
hostcert-bot  host_cert:create,list,read,update,delete             user:list,create,read,update,delete,...
```

> Machine ID can join with a `token` or the [IAM Method](https://goteleport.com/docs/setup/guides/joining-nodes-aws) on AWS.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
`tbot` can join the Teleport Cluster using a `token` or the [IAM Method](https://goteleport.com/docs/setup/guides/joining-nodes-aws) on AWS.
```

We will be adding new join methods for tbot very frequently. I wonder if there's an alternative way to phrase this sentence that doesn't require us to make udpates every time we add a new join method.

Reviewer 2: > I wonder if at some point it'll be easier to refer people to the getting started guide and to amend their existing tbot config rather than setting it up from scratch each time.

I was debating this, but I think that there are enough differences for Host Certificates that it warrants a different getting started style guide similar to what we do with [Application Access](https://goteleport.com/docs/machine-id/guides/applications/)

Down the line I see us consolidating all information into a guide that fully describes major features and configurations in a single resource and revamping our landing page to make that information more well understood upfront, but I also believe basic install guides like this will continue to serve a similar but separate role.

> While any role with permissions for logging into nodes will work, this guide will additionally make use of the default

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
While any role with permissions for logging into nodes will work, this guide will additionally make use of the preset
```

> `access` role to ensure that the tbot user can successfully log in. Use the `--logins` flag when adding your bot to specify the SSH logins that you wish to 

Reviewer 5: I don't think logins matter for host certs.

  the bot can join. Create the below file as `iam-token.yaml` then run `tctl
  create -f iam-token.yaml`.

  ```
  kind: token
  version: v2
  metadata:
    # The token name is not a secret because instances must prove that they are
    # running in your AWS account to use this token.
    name: iam-token
    # Set a long expiry time for how long you want to support IAM method for
    # joining. It is safe to set this value to a very long time.
    expires: "3000-01-01T00:00:00Z"
  spec:
    # Only allow bots to join using this token.
    roles: [Bot]

    # Set the join method to be IAM.
    join_method: iam

    # Define the name of the bot that will be allowed to use this token.
    bot_name: robot

    allow:
    # Restrict the AWS account and (optionally) ARN that can use this token.
    # This information can be obtained from running the
    # "aws sts get-caller-identity" command from the CLI.
    - aws_account: "111111111111"
      aws_arn: "arn:aws:sts::111111111111:assumed-role/teleport-bot-role/i-*"
  ```

  Next, create the bot user.

  ```
  $ tctl bots add robot --token=iam-token --roles=access --logins=root
  ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

> Machine ID may now be configured using the `tbot configure` command.

Reviewer 3: Would it be worth mentioning these steps may be run on a different node? On our other guides we tend to differentiate using "node with `tctl` access" and "bot node", the latter being where `tbot` actually runs (and in this case, where `sshd` is also running).

     --certificate-ttl=1h0m0s \
     --ca-pin=(=presets.ca_pin=) \
     --auth-server=auth.example.com:3025
  ```

  </ScopedBlock>
  <ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>

  ```code
  $ tbot configure \
     --data-dir=/var/lib/teleport/bot \
     --token=(=presets.tokens.first=) \
     --join-method=token \
     --certificate-ttl=1h0m0s \
     --ca-pin=(=presets.ca_pin=) \
     --auth-server=example.teleport.sh:443
  ```

  </ScopedBlock>

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="IAM Method">

  <ScopedBlock scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}>

  ```code
  $ tbot configure \
     --data-dir=/var/lib/teleport/bot \
     --token=iam-token \
     --join-method=iam \
     --certificate-ttl=1h0m0s \
     --ca-pin=(=presets.ca_pin=) \
     --auth-server=auth.example.com:3025
  ```

  </ScopedBlock>
  <ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>

  ```code
  $ tbot configure \
     --data-dir=/var/lib/teleport/bot \
     --token=iam-token \
     --join-method=iam \
     --certificate-ttl=1h0m0s \
     --ca-pin=(=presets.ca_pin=) \
     --auth-server=example.teleport.sh:443
  ```

  </ScopedBlock>

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Replace the following fields with values from your own cluster.

<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud"]}>

> - `token` is the token output by the `tctl bots add` command or the name of your IAM method token.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- `token` is the token output by the `tctl bots add` command or the name of your IAM join token.
```

- `ca-pin` is the CA Pin for your Teleport cluster, and is output by the `tctl bots add` command.
- `data-dir` is where Machine ID writes its private data, including its own short-lived renewable certificates. These should not be used by applications and tools.
- `auth-server` is the address of your Teleport Cloud Proxy Server, for example `example.teleport.sh:443`.

> - `certificate-ttl` is the option that will result in creation of a host certificate with Machine ID. The default TTL is for one hour, meaning that all generated certificates will expire after one hour's time.

Reviewer 5: This sentence is confusing to me. It sounds like if you don't specify a TTL then a host certificate is not created, but I don't believe that's true.

Reviewer 2: Clarifying this

</ScopedBlock>
<ScopedBlock scope={["oss","enterprise"]}>

- `token` is the token output by the `tctl bots add` command or the name of your IAM method token.
- `ca-pin` is the CA Pin for your Teleport cluster, and is output by the `tctl bots add` command.
- `data-dir` is where Machine ID writes its private data, including its own short-lived renewable certificates. These should not be used by applications and tools.
- `certificate-ttl` is the option that will result creation of a host certificate with Machine ID. The default TTL is for one hour, meaning that all generated certificates will expire after one hour's time.

> - `auth-server` is the address of your Teleport Auth Server, for example

Reviewer 5: Teleport itself now supports `--proxy-server` or `--auth-server`. We should probably add the equivalent flags to tbot (cc @strideynet @timothyb89)

Reviewer: Way ahead of ya https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/issues/16768 - I'll add some more details to that ticket though.

  `auth.example.com:3025`. If your Machine ID host is in a different network
  than your Auth Server, use the public web address of your Proxy Service
  instead (e.g., `auth.example.com:443`).

</ScopedBlock>

Using a text editor of your choice, write the output generated by the `tbot configure` command to a configuration YAML file, in this example we'll be using `tbot.yaml`.

> Once complete, the Machine ID configuration will still require a destination directory to be manually referenced within the configuration file. The destination directory is where Machine ID will write user certificates

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Once complete, the Machine ID configuration will still require a destination directory to be manually referenced within the configuration file. The destination directory is where Machine ID will write certificates
```

Again, I wouldn't mention user certificates in a guide about host certificates.

which can be used by application and tools to start Machine ID. In the configuration yaml `tbot.yaml`, this configuration will additionally be used to designate the **principal**,
in this case the Domain Name that we'll be applying to the tbot configuration to access a Node.

> The new configuration YAML will require a `destination` field and `ssh_host_cert` subfield that resembles the following, replacing `nodename.my.domain.com` with your own required domain name:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The new configuration YAML will require a `destination` field and `ssh_host_cert` subfield that resembles the following, replacing `nodename.my.domain.com` with your own required domain names or IP addresses:
```

Might be worth mentioning IP addresses are valid principals, since I'm sure some deployments won't have DNS set up at all.

```
destinations:
  - directory:
      path: /opt/machine-id
    configs:
      - ssh_host_cert:
          principals: [nodename.my.domain.com]
```

Once completed, your `tbot.yaml` configuration should resemble the following:

```
onboarding:
  token: "1234abcd5678efgh9"
  ca_path: ""
  ca_pins:
  - sha256:1234abcd5678efgh910ijklmnop
  join_method: token
storage:
  directory:
    path: /var/lib/teleport/bot
    symlinks: secure
    acls: try
destinations:
  - directory:
      path: /opt/machine-id
    configs:
      - ssh_host_cert:
          principals: [nodename.my.domain.com]
debug: false
auth_server: example.teleport.sh:443
certificate_ttl: 1h0m0s
renewal_interval: 20m0s
oneshot: false
```

Note the `renewal_interval` field, which will determine the cadence in which new certificates will be generated. Machine ID uses a default of 20 minutes for the `renewal_interval`, however this field may be adjusted as needed.

## Step 4/4 Start Machine ID and create a host certificate

> Using your configuration file, The `tbot start -c` command will start running Machine ID in a loop,

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Using your configuration file, The `tbot start` command will start running Machine ID in a loop,
```

view the public certificates contents by entering the following command:

```code
$ sudo ssh-keygen -L -f /opt/machine-id/key-cert.pub
```

The contents of the public certificate will appear, and will contain a `principals` field which will contain the `nodename.my.domain.com` domain entered in a previous step.
Your output will resemble the following:

```
        Type: ssh-rsa-cert-v01@openssh.com host certificate
        Public key: RSA-CERT SHA256:abcde123efghijk567lmnop
        Signing CA: RSA SHA256:abcde123efghijk567lmnop (using rsa-sha2-512)
        Key ID: ""
        Serial: 0
        Valid: from 2022-09-30T13:16:36 to 2022-09-30T17:17:36
        Principals:
                nodename.my.domain.com
        Critical Options: (none)
        Extensions:
                x-teleport-authority UNKNOWN OPTION (len 55)
                x-teleport-role UNKNOWN OPTION (len 8)
```

## Next Steps

Now that Host Certificates have been created with machine ID, they can be applied to OpenSSH configurations as needed. For more information regarding the next steps

> to connect to OpenSSH with Machine ID, see the following documentation:

Reviewer 3: Maybe a slight reword since these are mostly not Machine ID specific?

```suggestion
to connect to OpenSSH with Teleport, see the following documentation:
```

- [Using Teleport With OpenSSH](../server-access/guides/openssh/)
- [Using SSH Host Certificates](https://goteleport.com/blog/how-to-ssh-properly/)
- [Machine ID Configuration Reference](../machine-id/reference/configuration/)

> 

Reviewer 5: Can you remove all of these empty lines?

                x-teleport-role UNKNOWN OPTION (len 8)
```

## Step 5/5 Configuring SSHD and connecting to the Teleport Cluster

In order to ensure that the Machine ID host is able to authorize and authenticate itself to the cluster using `sshd`, `sshd` must now be configured to
use the generated certificate files.

> Using a text editor of your choice, open the `sshd` configuration file generally found within `/etc/ssh/sshd_config` and add the following lines:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Using a text editor of your choice, open the `sshd` configuration file, uSUALLY found within `/etc/ssh/sshd_config`, and add the following lines:
```

> ```yaml

Reviewer 6: Since this isn't a yaml file, I suggest `ini`.

## Path to the private Key File affiliated with the host certificate.
HostKey /opt/machine-id/ssh_host

## Ensures that the OpenSSH server is offering the generated public host certificate when connections are attempted.
HostCertificate /opt/machine-id/ssh_host-cert.pub

## Ensures that the server will trust certificates signed by the remote CA
TrustedUserCAKeys /opt/machine-id/ssh_host-user-ca.pub
```

> Once completed, restart `sshd` to apply the new configuration:

Reviewer 6: "completed" could be ambiguous. Consider "saved".

```code
$ systemctl restart sshd
```

The Machine ID host is now fully configured to accept connections from a `TSH` user.
To confirm this, enter the following command from your local machine logged into the cluster using `tsh`:

```code
$ tsh ssh root@nodename.my.domain.com:22
```

> The connection should successfully complete without any additional credentials needing to be manually entered.

Reviewer 6: Just a suggestion for a more succinct phrasing.

```suggestion
The connection should successfully complete without manually entering any additional credentials.
```
